{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Group project\f1\lang2057  by: \f0\lang9 Jeremi Kiermasz\f1\lang2057 , \f0\lang9 Saqib Choudhury\f1\lang2057 , \f0\lang9 Aisha \b\par
1. Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability\b0\par
In small groups, analyse scenarios. For each one, identify\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 the primary principle of\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 the CIA Triad being violated: Confidentiality,\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 Integrity, or Availability. \par
Be prepared to justify your answer.\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Confidentiality: Preserving authorized restrictions on information\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 access and disclosure.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Integrity: Guarding against improper information modification or\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 destruction.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Availability: Ensuring timely and reliable access to and use of\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 information.\f1\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0  A. The 2017 Equifax Data Breach\par
\b0 What happened: A massive data breach at one of the largest credit\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 bureaus in the United\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 States. Attackers gained unauthorized access\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 to the personal and financial data of nearly 150 million people\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Most significantly compromised CIA Triad - Confidentiality\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Why? - Massive data breach grants unauthorised information\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Secondary Impacts - \f1\lang2057 Availability, as a result \f0\lang9\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b B. The Stuxnet Worm\par
\b0 What happened: A highly sophisticated computer worm designed\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 not just to steal information, but to cause physical damage. It\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 specifically targeted the control systems of\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 Iranian nuclear\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 centrifuges, causing them to subtly malfunction and destroy\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 themselves.\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Most significantly compromised CIA Triad - Integrity\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Why? - Worm caused physical damage to control systems\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Secondary Impacts - Confidentiality, the worm also stole information of the Iranian nuclear centrifuges\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\ul\f1\lang2057 In depth analysis on the Stuxnet Wrom:\ulnone\f0\lang9\par
The most significantly compromised CIA triad was definetaly integriry, as it involved specifically targeting supervisory control and data acquisition systems, \f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 physically causing damage within them.\par
Installed by an Iranian engineer, the worm was physically brought into the facility, and injected using a USB drive, allowing the worm to get direct access to the system including ones not connected to the internet. \par
It stayed undetected with the help of a multiple advanced techniques such as man in the middle attacks that faked sensor signals to make infected systems appear to operate normally. Additionally the worm remained mostly dorment from late 2009 to 2010, allowing it to steal tageted information before conditions are met to excecute the payload, compromising another part of the CIA triad, confidentiality as it the worm was capable\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 of stealing sensitive data from the Iranian nuclear centrifuges. The targeted approach further limiting its visibility to broader networks, keeping it hidden longer. \par
When\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 the right conditions where met, the worm manipulated the operating system speeds of the centrifuges, causing them to fail and degrade faster than normal. It did this through exploiting zero day vulnarabilities in Siemens software controlling these systems\par
\b C. The 2016 Dyn DNS DDoS Attack\par
\b0 What happened: A massive "Denial of Service" attack that targeted\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 a major internet infrastructure company called Dyn. The attack\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 flooded Dyn's servers with traffic, making a large number of major\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 websites and online services\emdash such as Twitter, Spotify, and\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 Reddit\emdash unavailable for hours across Europe and North America.\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Most significantly compromised CIA Triad - Availability\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Why? - The DDoS attack shut down a major number or important websites for an extended period of time\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Secondary Impacts - Integrety? Targeted major internet infrastructure company called Dyn\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b D. The 2021 Colonial Pipeline Ransomware Attack\par
\b0 What happened: A ransomware attack forced the shutdown of the\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 largest fuel pipeline in the United States, which supplies nearly half\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 of the East Coast's fuel. The shutdown lasted for several days,\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 leading to widespread fuel shortages and panic buying. The\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 company paid a\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 multi-million dollar ransom to the attackers to\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 receive a decryption tool and restore operations.\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Most significantly compromised CIA Triad - Integrity\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Why? - Ransomware attack encrypted and shutdown the largest fuel pipeline in the US\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Secondary Impacts - Availability, the shutdown lasted several days, leading to widespread fuel shortages\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b E. The 2023 MOVEit Supply Chain Attack\par
\b0 What happened: A Russian-affiliated cybercriminal group exploited\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 a previously unknown ("zero-day") vulnerability in a popular file\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 transfer software called MOVEit. This allowed them to steal massive\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 amounts of sensitive data from thousands of organizations\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 worldwide that used the software, including government agencies,\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 financial institutions, and major corporations like the BBC and British\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 Airways.\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Most significantly compromised CIA Triad - Confidentiality\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Why? - Massive amounts of sensitive data was stol\f1\lang2057\-\-\-\-\f0\lang9 en through MOVEit software\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Secondary Impacts - Integrity, a zero day vulnerability was exploited in MOVEit to get access to said data \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b F. The 2020 SolarWinds Supply Chain Attack\par
\b0 What happened: State-sponsored hackers compromised the\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 software build process of a major IT management company,\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 SolarWinds. They secretly inserted malicious code into a legitimate\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 software update for the company's "Orion" platform. This trojanized\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 update was then unknowingly distributed to over 18,000 SolarWinds\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 customers, allowing the attackers to gain long-term, stealthy access\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 to the networks of numerous government agencies and private\f1\lang2057  \f0\lang9 companies.\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1 Most significantly compromised CIA Triad - Confidentiality\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Why? - Attackers gained access to networks of many government agencies and private companies \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Secondary Impacts - Integrity, Malicious code was inserted in a software update to give attackers access to said networks\par
}
 